# DepMap dataset URLs

Updated 2022-09-06.

## Combination of Broad and Sanger scoring data

Combined Achilles and Sanger SCORE Chronos data using Harmonia.
This batch correction pipeline is described in:
https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.05.22.110247v3.

## Chronos vs. CERES scoring

Chronos was added as the recommended scoring method over CERES in the 2021 Q2
update.

Blog post describing difference:
https://cancerdatascience.org/blog/posts/ceres-chronos/

Pre-print manuscript:
https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.02.25.432728v1.abstract

## Descriptions of file downloads

Harmonia data (Broad Achilles and Sanger Project Score combined); post-Chronos
scoring (current preferred method):

- `crispr_common_essentials_chronos.csv`: List of genes identified as
  dependencies in all lines, one per line.
- `crispr_gene_dependency_chronos.csv`: Probability that knocking out the gene
  has a real depletion effect using `CRISPR_gene_effect_Chronos`.
  - Columns: genes in the format `"HUGO (Entrez)"`.
  - Rows: cell lines (Broad IDs).
- `crispr_gene_effect_chronos.csv`: Combined Achilles and Sanger SCORE Chronos
  data using Harmonia.
  - Columns: genes in the format `"HUGO (Entrez)"`.
  - Rows: cell lines (Broad IDs).

Harmonia data (Broad Achilles and Sanger Project Score combined); post-CERES
scoring (deprecated in favor of Chronos):

- `crispr_common_essentials.csv`: List of genes identified as dependencies in
  all lines, one per line.
- `crispr_gene_dependency.csv`: Probability that knocking out the gene has a
  real depletion effect using `CRISPR_gene_effect`.
  - Columns: genes in the format `"HUGO (Entrez)"`.
  - Rows: cell lines (Broad IDs).
- `crispr_gene_effect.csv`: Combined Achilles and Sanger SCORE Chronos data
  using Harmonia.
  - Columns: genes in the format `"HUGO (Entrez)"`.
  - Rows: cell lines (Broad IDs).

Achilles data (deprecated in favor of Harmonia); post-Chronos scoring:

- `achilles_common_essentials_chronos.csv`: List of genes identified as
  pan-essentials using Chronos.
- `achilles_gene_dependency_chronos.csv`: Probability that knocking out the gene
  has a real depletion effect using `gene_effect_Chronos`.
  - Columns: genes in the format `"HUGO (Entrez)"`.
  - Rows: cell lines (Broad IDs).
- `achilles_gene_effect_chronos.csv`: Chronos data, copy number corrected.
  - Columns: genes in the format `"HUGO (Entrez)"`.
  - Rows: cell lines (Broad IDs).

Achilles data (deprecated in favor of Harmonia); post-CERES scoring (deprecated
in favor of Chronos):

- `achilles_common_essentials.csv`: List of genes identified as dependencies in
  all lines, one per line.
- `achilles_gene_dependency.csv`: Probability that knocking out the gene has a
  real depletion effect using `gene_effect`.
  - Columns: genes in the format `"HUGO (Entrez)"`.
  - Rows: cell lines (Broad IDs).
- `achilles_gene_effect.csv`: CERES data with principle components strongly
  related to known batch effects removed, then shifted and scaled per cell line
  so the median nonessential KO effect is 0 and the median essential KO effect
  is -1.
  - Columns: genes in the format `"HUGO (Entrez)"`.
  - Rows: cell lines (Broad IDs).

Pre-CERES (and Chronos) scoring control files:

- `common_essentials.csv`: List of genes used as positive controls, intersection
  of Biomen (2014) and Hart (2015) essentials in the format `"HUGO (Entrez)"`.
  Each entry is separated by a newline. The scores of these genes are used as
  the dependent distribution for inferring dependency probability.
- `nonessentials.csv`: List of genes used as negative controls (Hart 2014
  nonessentials) in the format `"HUGO (Entrez)"`. Each entry is separated by a
  newline.

RNAi screening with DEMETER2 scoring:

- `d2_combined_gene_dep_scores.csv`:
  Source: Broad Institute, Novartis, Marcotte et al.
  - 17309 Genes
  - 712 Cell Lines
  - 31 Primary Diseases
  - 31 Lineages

CCLE files:

- `ccle_expression.csv`: RNA-seq TPM gene expression data for just protein
  coding genes using RSEM. Log2 transformed, using a pseudo-count of 1.
  - Rows: cell lines (Broad IDs).
  - Columns: genes (HGNC symbol and Entrez ID).
- `ccle_gene_cn.csv`: Gene level copy number data, log2 transformed with a
  pseudo count of 1. This is generated by mapping genes onto the segment level
  calls.
  - Rows: cell lines (Broad IDs).
  - Columns: genes (HGNC symbol and Entrez ID).
- `ccle_mutations.csv`: MAF of gene mutations. For all columns with AC, the
  allelic ratio is presented as [ALTERNATE:REFERENCE].
  Columns:
  - `CGA_WES_AC`: the allelic ratio for this variant in all our WES/WGS (exon
    only) using a cell line adapted version of the 2019 CGA pipeline that
    includes germline filtering.
  - `SangerWES_AC`: in Sanger WES (called by sanger) (legacy).
  - `SangerRecalibWES_AC`: in Sanger WES after realignment at Broad (legacy).
  - `RNAseq_AC`: in Broad RNAseq data from the CCLE2 project (legacy).
  - `HC_AC`: in Broad Hybrid capture data from the CCLE2 project (legacy).
  - `RD_AC`: in Broad Raindance data from the CCLE2 project (legacy).
  - `legacy_wgs_exon_only`: in Broad WGS data from the CCLE2 project (legacy).
  - `isTCGAhotspot`: is this mutation commonly found in TCGA.
  - `TCGAhsCnt`: number of times this mutation is observed in TCGA.
  - `isCOSMIChotspot`: is this mutation commonly found in COSMIC.
  - `COSMIChsCnt`: number of samples in COSMIC with this mutation.
  - `ExAC_AF`: the allelic frequency in the Exome Aggregation Consortium (ExAC).
    Descriptions of the remaining columns in the MAF can be found here:
    https://docs.gdc.cancer.gov/Data/File_Formats/MAF_Format/

Other files:

- `readme.txt`:
  Description of all files contained in this release.
- `sample_info.csv`:
  Cell line information definitions:
  1. `"DepMap_ID"`: Static primary key assigned by DepMap to each cell line.
  2. `"cell_line_name"`.
  3. `"stripped_cell_line_name"`: Cell line name with alphanumeric characters
     only.
  4. `"CCLE_Name"`: Previous naming system that used the stripped cell line
     name followed by the lineage; no longer assigned to new cell lines.
  5. `"alias"`: Additional cell line identifiers (not a comprehensive list).
  6. `"COSMICID"`: Cell line ID used in Cosmic cancer database.
  7. `"sex"`: Sex of tissue donor if known.
  8. `"source"`: Source of cell line vial used by DepMap.
  9. `"Achilles_n_replicates"`: Number of replicates used in Achilles CRISPR
     screen passing QC.
  10. `"cell_line_NNMD"`: Difference in the means of positive and negative
      controls normalized by the standard deviation of the negative control
      distribution.
  11. `"culture_type"`: Growth pattern of cell line (Adherent, Suspension, Mixed
      adherent and suspension, 3D, or Adherent (requires laminin coating)).
  12. `"culture_medium"`: Medium used to grow cell line.
  13. `"cas9_activity"`: Percentage of cells remaining GFP positive on days
      12-14 of Cas9 activity assay as measured by FACS.
  14. `"RRID"`: Cellosaurus research resource identifier.
  15. `"WTSI_Master_Cell_ID"`.
  16. `"sample_collection_site"`: Tissue collection site.
  17. `"primary_or_metastasis"`: Indicates whether tissue sample is from primary
      or metastatic site.
  18. `"primary_disease"`: General cancer lineage category.
  19. `"Subtype"`: Subtype of disease; specific disease name.
  20. `"age"`: If known, age of tissue donor at time of sample collection.
  21. `"Sanger_Model_ID"`: Sanger Institute Cell Model Passport ID.
  22. `"depmap_public_comments"`.
  23. `"lineage"`.
  24. `"lineage_subtype"`.
  25. `"lineage_sub_subtype"`.
  26. `"lineage_molecular_subtype"`: Cancer type classifications in a
      standardized form.

## See also

- https://depmap.org/portal/download/
- https://github.com/broadinstitute/depmap_omics/
